>> Why is a younger generation
of truth seekers suddenly
obsessed with a long
declassified military report?
The Gateway Experience--
from relative obscurity
to a viral hit.
This is Gaia News.
[THEME MUSIC]
The social media site
TikTok is seen a viral hit
from an unlikely source.
A 1983 army intelligence
report called
The Analysis and Assessment
of the Gateway Process details
the technique to reach higher
consciousness by sinking
the hemispheres of the brain.
Declassified nearly 20
years ago by the CIA,
the report has suddenly
gained interest by TikTokers
with more than a million
views and counting.
Many young TikTokers
are not only
sharing news of
the gateway process
but their experiences
trying to use it.
So what's the full story?
Often mistakenly reported
as a CIA document,
this decades-old
report was actually
written by an army
intelligence officer.
The Gateway Process, part
of the Gateway Program,
was run by Bob Monroe at
the Monroe Institute, which
many remote viewers went through
as a part of their training.
What was the objective
of the Gateway Program?
And how is it related
to remote viewing?
Retired US Army
Major Paul H. Smith
spent seven years as a remote
viewer and remote viewing
trainer, and completed
the Gateway Program.
>> In the Gateway Program, the
goal is just to kind of expand
one's consciousness to
help these, I guess,
for want of a better
word, otherworldly kinds
of experiences.
And remote viewing is a very
practical pragmatic thing
where the viewer is expected
to obtain real information that
can be verified and explain what
it is that they are perceiving
in a way that it can be
used in some practical way.
The value of the
gateway process,
they use this technology
known as Hemi-Sync
which allows one to
synchronize one's hemispheres,
essentially adopt a
certain specific state
of consciousness as sort
of a state of relaxation.
And that was very helpful
in preparing a remote viewer
to actually go forth
and do whatever
their particular
assigned mission was.
So one was kind of an
adjunct for the other.
>> How does a person reach
a state of Hemi-Sync?
>> So the way Hemi-Sync works
is it plays two audio signals
in either ear.
One in this area, one in
this area, and they're
a half step-out.
Well, it's an
acoustic signal but it
generates electromagnetic
energy, electrochemical energy
in the brain.
And the two
hemispheres, of course,
come together at
a certain point.
Those two audio
signals, now turned
into an electrical
signal, meet in the middle
and they set up that what
they call a beat frequency,
that warbly kind of sound.
And you can adjust it and the
brain starts following that.
And for example, you can go to
the 7.5 Hertz frequency, which
is the theta range
in EEG, and you
can change those frequencies,
and it alters how the two
hemispheres sink together.
That's why they
synchronize and that's
why we call it Hemi-Sync.
So hemisphere
synchronization, right?
And it's really quite
remarkable technology.
>> What is the gateway process
and Hemi-Sync experience like?
>> It's kind of hard to
express what the experience
in a gateway program is without
actually having it yourself.
It's very subjective.
I was in a space with
no time for a while
where everything
was illuminated.
I was able to actually went
back and experienced some points
in my life that I've
forgotten about.
I had this perception
of one of my colleagues
who I was working
with at the time
and seem to be in perfectly good
health being in a hospital bed,
all bundled up with
bandages around his chest,
and hooked up to
equipment all the stuff.
I just had this perception.
And a year and a
half later, this guy
had open heart surgery because
he had a sudden heart attack.
That, I wasn't expecting.
But I definitely have
this link, this perception
from December of 1983 to
the middle of 1985 that
matched what actually happened.
>> What are the benefits
of the gateway process?
>> Over the years, the Hemi-Sync
technology which is the core
of the gateway program, has
been used actually in a lot
of interest in ways.
It has shown some
ability to help people
in healing and pain management.
It's tended to show some success
in helping people become better
learners, overcome some
learning disabilities,
and of course,
that's been explored
just as like
consciousness-raising kind
of a methodology as well.
>> It's been nearly 20 years
since this document was
declassified.
Why do you think there's
a sudden interest now?
>> This particular document
has really caught the attention
and imagination of
a lot of people.
And I think there's a
couple of reasons for that.
First of all, it really explores
the nature of consciousness,
the nature of quantum
physics, and how
it interacts with human
perception, human thought,
and action.
It explores how we might
engineer that in a way using
this Hemi-Sync technology.
And the real interesting
thing about this,
it has some
credibility because it
is something that came
out of the intelligence
community, it's something
that budget dollars paid for.
And so I think that makes it
real, actually real for people
to see this thing that the
government had something
to do with them
producing, and yet it
seems to be far afield of where
normally people's thoughts go
in the mainstream.
>> Having gone through
the gateway program,
what did you find most
interesting about this report?
>> This author has really honed
in on a lot of the current
topics of conversation
concerning
multi-dimensionality,
concerning holographic nature,
potentially the holographic
nature of the universe,
of consciousness, and how it
relates to quantum physics,
and all of that.
Now, you have to realize this
is all speculative stuff.
Just because it's
in the paper doesn't
mean it's absolutely true
because we don't know.
It's a guide, I guess, to try
and understand the universe.
And we'll find out
how true that is as we
learn more things about it.
>> It is unclear how
TikTokers found the document.
But the idea of a path
to higher consciousness,
the holographic nature
of the universe,
and otherworldly experiences
are being embraced
by a younger generation.
As more and more
classified documents
are released to the
public, what else
might we learn about
our current reality?
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.